---
title: Bored
layout: post
---

## Introduction
Hello everyone. Sorry for not updating in a while. I honestly don't know what to write about at all. Life is so incredibly boring. I am trying to create a schedule, but I find it hard to wake up before 9 AM. 

Some new things I have been doing are going on a walk everyday and getting at least 3k steps. I have been walking Kabali the past few days. Kabali is Leela's dog and we are dogsitting him because she went to Europe for a vacation. He is a maltipoo, but more poodle. He is super cute but he always wants to be with someone and he will follow someone everywhere. 

I also started self-learning the CS50 Harvard course. So far, I am on Week 1, learning the C language. It isn't too bad, but it's probably gonna get harder. I am also trying to teach myself cad/circuts. I've ordered an aurdino starter kit, which should be here on Monday, so that might be fun to post blogs about my projects on here. 

I also have a job interview to work at the the Stevenson Ranch Library for the summer on Monday. This is my 4th job interview. My first one was for Santa Clarita to work as a receptionist at the community center. I wasn't selected because it was yearlong, and I am looking for a summer job.

My 2nd one was with this dentistry for this financial administrative position. I'm not sure what happened with that one as they haven't said anything yet. I might follow up tomorrow.

My 3rd one was with Six Flags. I didn't take up this one because they wanted me to work 8 hour shifts at least 5 days a week. I do not want to work 40 hours a week in my last free summer, so I said no as well.

This job-hunting experience opened my eyes to how hard it is to actually get a job, even the most bare minimum requirement ones, these days. I thought it wasn't that hard because both my previous jobs (Kumon & TLC), I got fairly easily with an email and interview. Anyways, wish me luck for the library one as I am pretty excited about that.

Other than that, there's not really much to talk about. I have been playing Roblox a lot and watching movies, but I should slow down both because it isn't healthy to do that all the time (cough iykyk cough)

OH YEAh I completely forgot, I am learning how to drive now! I had my 2nd lesson today and I drove on the actual roads. It isn't that bad but I suck at turning and changing lanes. I really need concentrate on that.

Thats it I think. Hopefully a more comprehensive post will be out next week. 